README.md, before:

BitMEX API Connectors
=====================

A few simple connectors for connecting to the BitMEX API, which conforms to the
[Swagger](https://github.com/wordnik/swagger-spec/blob/master/versions/1.2.md) spec.

Connectors in the `clients` directory are autogenerated. Connectors in the `official-*` directory
are written or vetted by BitMEX employees to showcase various features.

Official Examples
-----------------

#### HTTP

* [C#](/official-http/csharp)
* [mIRC](/official-http/mIRC)
* [Node-Request](/official-http/node-request)
* [Node-Swagger](/official-http/node-swagger)
* [Python-SwaggerPy](/official-http/python-swaggerpy)
* [VBA](/official-http/vba)

#### Websockets

> The easiest way to get real-time data from BitMEX is via the
[BitMEX Delta Server](/official-ws/delta-server), a locally-runnable
HTTP server that subscribes to live data on your behalf.
You can poll this local server as often as you want.

* [BitMEX-Delta-Server (Start Here)](/official-ws/delta-server)
* [NodeJS](/official-ws/nodejs)
* [Browser (Primus)](/official-ws/browser-primus)
* [Python](/official-ws/python)

Auto-Generated Languages
------------------------

Clients:

* [Android](/auto-generated/android)
* [Clojure](/auto-generated/clojure)
* [C#](/auto-generated/csharp)
* [Dart](/auto-generated/dart)
* [Go](/auto-generated/go)
* [Java](/auto-generated/java)
* [JavaScript](/auto-generated/javascript)
* [Objective C](/auto-generated/objc)
* [PHP](/auto-generated/php)
* [Python](/auto-generated/python)
* [Ruby](/auto-generated/ruby)
* [Scala](/auto-generated/scala)
* [Scala-Akka](/auto-generated/akka-scala)
* [Swift](/auto-generated/swift4)
* [TypeScript](/auto-generated/typescript-fetch)

Swagger Output:

* [JSON](/auto-generated/swagger)
* [YAML](/auto-generated/swagger-yaml)

Commit message:

updating documentation and adding cribnotes for problems

README.md, after:

Bretton's customised Bitmex API Connectors
==========================================
I have fixed several problems with details from issues and pull requests, as well as merged in changes from several other repositories which are showing as ahead in commits over master.

You can tip me via LN at http://lnd3.vanilla.co.za!

-----------------

BitMEX API Connectors
=====================

A few simple connectors for connecting to the BitMEX API, which conforms to the
[Swagger](https://github.com/wordnik/swagger-spec/blob/master/versions/1.2.md) spec.

Connectors in the `clients` directory are autogenerated. Connectors in the `official-*` directory
are written or vetted by BitMEX employees to showcase various features.

Official Examples
-----------------

#### HTTP

* [C#](/official-http/csharp)
* [mIRC](/official-http/mIRC)
* [Node-Request](/official-http/node-request)
* [Node-Swagger](/official-http/node-swagger)
* [Python-SwaggerPy](/official-http/python-swaggerpy)
* [VBA](/official-http/vba)

#### Websockets

> The easiest way to get real-time data from BitMEX is via the
[BitMEX Delta Server](/official-ws/delta-server), a locally-runnable
HTTP server that subscribes to live data on your behalf.
You can poll this local server as often as you want.

* [BitMEX-Delta-Server (Start Here)](/official-ws/delta-server)
* [NodeJS](/official-ws/nodejs)
* [Browser (Primus)](/official-ws/browser-primus)
* [Python](/official-ws/python)

Auto-Generated Languages
------------------------

Clients:

* [Android](/auto-generated/android)
* [Clojure](/auto-generated/clojure)
* [C#](/auto-generated/csharp)
* [Dart](/auto-generated/dart)
* [Go](/auto-generated/go)
* [Java](/auto-generated/java)
* [JavaScript](/auto-generated/javascript)
* [Objective C](/auto-generated/objc)
* [PHP](/auto-generated/php)
* [Python](/auto-generated/python)
* [Ruby](/auto-generated/ruby)
* [Scala](/auto-generated/scala)
* [Scala-Akka](/auto-generated/akka-scala)
* [Swift](/auto-generated/swift4)
* [TypeScript](/auto-generated/typescript-fetch)

Swagger Output:

* [JSON](/auto-generated/swagger)
* [YAML](/auto-generated/swagger-yaml)
